
Overlay Model
point-to-point secure tunnels is what Service Provide gives to end customer when
end customer connects to Service provider network. Means Service provides does not
participates in routing across customer site to customer site.
Its up to customer how he want to build his overlay network.

e.g L2: Frame Relay, ATM, X.25
    L3: IPSec, GRE, DMVPN, L2TPV3, SSL VPN etc.

Generally , an extra packet overhead is added to customer packet (e.g gre header, or ipsec header).

Disadvantages: Manual Provision, Packet Overhead, Fixed bandwidth provision

Peer-to-Peer model:
e.g BGP VPN, MPLS etc, where Service Provide is part of the peer-to-peer network build up.

Advantage:  Dynamic provisioning, No seperate VPN configuration ,
Adding a new VPN is easy.
Adding a PE to CE link is enough in most cases to add a new Client Site.

Disadvantag: Service provider involoved here, and uses route-filter to keep clients seperated.
             Ensuring no traffic from other customer entrer other customer, is what service provider
	     has to ensure.

If we use MPLS, it has both advantages in both model.



Overlay Models Explained
=======================

                 site 1                               site 2
Private-IP 10.1.1.1/24 Public-IP A----Internet-----Public IP B---Private-IP 10.1.1.2/24
                                   (Transit N/W)
Securing your data from site to site(A to B)  while your specific data on a selected subnet
traverses from site to site over internet.
IPsec VPN encrypts payload and decrypts at the other end where the tunnel ends.

Types of VPN technology:
Below two protocols are also establish VPN tunnels, but no security/encryption buit in.
1. GRE tunnel is a point to point only
   Tunneling protocol developed by Cicso
   
   e.g site 1
       interface tunnel 12.
       ip address 10.1.1.1/24<-----------private IP
       tunnel src-ip A dst-ip B<-------- public IP

   e.g site 2
       interface tunnel 12.
       ip address 10.1.1.2/24
       tunnel src-ip B dst-ip A
   At the end of this config, site 1 can ping with IP 10.1.1.2 and reach.
   Also note that user can establish OSPF/BGP over GRE tunnel, as if like
   normal routing between C and D.

 
   Routing between A and B should already be available via OSPF/BGP etc.

   Note that IPv6 over IPv4 Transit Network is also supported.
   Your IPv6 packet will be appended with GRE IPv4 header, thus its transported.
   Note that its a clear text header, so anyone can see it.
   
2. DMVPN supports point to multipoint connection
   Dynamic Multipoint VPN (by Cisco in 2000).
   Underneath uses NHRP(FRR supports);
   
   NHRP is like ARP
   This build dynamic tunnels in full mesh form.
   No static tunnel src/dst IP need be configured between each site.
   Clients private subnet IP's are allocated dynamically.
   This is pure Hub-Spoke topology, each site has to go through
   spoke to reach other branch.
   
   DMVPN is acheived via using multiple protocols.
   1. mGRE: Multipoint GRE
      tunnel src-ip B mode mGRE
      No destination is configured.
      Src and Dst public IP's can be in different subnets.
   2. NHRP
      NBMA addres is a Public IP(static or dynamic).
      NBMA keeps track of binding 'tunnel-ip' with NBMA address all the time,
                                   private<------->public mapping
      similar like IP-MAC mapping maintained in ARP.
      NHS :Nexthop Server(hub) : Mapping agent
      NSC: Nethop Client(spoke)
    3.BGP/OSPF
      'redistribute nhrp' command needs be used to redistribute
       tunnel-ip addresses, so other BGP NBR(spokes) can send
       traffic to these tunnel-ip as destination.
       Likely this command is used on both NHS, NHC,
    4. NHC1 can reach  NHC2, but reachability(public-ip) of
       NHC2 is known only to NHS. Meaning, NHC1 will send
       query(NHRP Resoloution) to NHS asking for mapping info(public-IP) of NHC2.
       Only after reciving this reply, NHC1 establish a GRE tunnel
       directly to NHC2 wihtout involving NHS.
       NHRP Register: tell NHS what tunnel-ip/public-ip using to NHS,
                      NHS receive these messages and stores like a book keeper.
       NHRP Resolotion: Ask 
.
       
3. IPSec tunnel is also a point to point only, but it secures IP layer
Data Integrity
Authentication via password

IPSec Tunnel Mode: is default and used most ly.
      Entire original IP packet is protected by IPSec, adds
      a new IP header with public IP, and transports., commonly used
      between gateways (Cisco Routers or ASA firewalls)
      L2 + New-IP+ IP+ ESP/AH + L4 Payload
      
IPSec Transport mode:
      Used for encrypted telnet or Remote Desktop session. not used commonly
      L2 + IP + ESP/AH + L4 Payload
      
IPSec uses following protocols
IKE: Internet Key Exchange : Provides framework for negotiation of security parameters,
     Establishment of authenticated keys,
     Build a a secure channel between two router.
     IKE Phase 1: establish secure channel
     IKE Phase 2: negotiate ipsec security parameter are negotiated
     After this it terminate tunnel.

ESP: Encapsulating Security Payload:
     Provides framework for encrypting, authenticating and securing of data,
AH: Authentication Header Provides framework for authenicating and securing of data




4. DMVPN(IPSec implemented over it)  ( most commnly used)


VPN use models:
Remote VPN access.
Get access to Office via VPN server managed by Company, where Office LAN access is enabled.
Site to Site VPN
Corportate connect multipe of theere site to headquarter.
