
SPF:
ISIS/OSPF rely on Dijkstra's SPF algorithm.
BGP/RIP relies on Bellman-Ford's distance vector algorithm.

A basic difference between the Bellman-Ford algorithm and the SPF algorithm is that in the former, 
each node bases it path calculation on knowledge of the cost to all directly connected neighbors 
plus the advertised costs for routes heard from these neighbors. 
	In contrast, the SPF algorithm requires each node to have complete 
information about the entire topology. 
All nodes inside an area, therefore, obtain an identical Link-State database for the area.

Disadvantage of Distance Vector protocols is they are susceptible to Loops, 
when there NBRs give incorrect values, or the value is stale. 
Link-state protocls converge faster, but they are resource intensive.

ISIS needs 20byte NSAP address per node.
This consists of three field( Area-Address, System-Address(6byte), 1byte nsap sel).

Area-Address value is used to bring up Level-1 adjacencies,
(areas should match or overlap if multiple NSAP's are configured) to bring up Level-1 Adjacency. 
Area-Address are not looked at to bring up Level-2 Adjacency.

In otherwords, L1 NBR's who form adjacency  must have same area address.
               L2 NBR's who form adjacency  can belong to different areas,
L1L2 Router: Has two saperate LSDB, L1 LSDP and L2 LSDB.

Backbone area: OSPF has  area zero, as its backbone area.
               Contiguous collection of L2 capable routers will logically become Backbone area.
When protocol type is IP and OSI between two system, ISIS ADJ is not established:  
It has to be either IP and IP , or OSI and OSI.

User can change area-address on the fly in Level-1, witout bringing down the adjacency, by
first adding a new overlapping address, then removing older areas.

When calculating route to a given destination, if it can't route, it will route to a neareast level-2 router.

LAN or P2P type of peering is possible.

Concept of Pseudonode is due to this: 
On a broadcast (LAN) network, Desginated IS(DIS) is elected which acts as a pseudonode,
acting as the center of the network. This avoids n^2 full mesh adjacency. 
Only Pseudonode advertise link to all other nodes in the network. 
Each route in that Broadcast network reports that it has link to the Pseudonode. 
DIS sends LSP on behalf of Pseudonode.

OSI : Open Systems Interconnection.
NLPID: Network Layer Proto ID
NSAP: Network Service Access Point

Each level LSP can have upto 256 fragments(as size to identify fragment-id is 1byte).
Max number of routes in 256 fragments is 30kroutes, when MTU used is 1496. 
Only way to increase routes is increase MTU size can goupto 5k or 9k(jumbo).


RFC1195 Basic ISIS over IP RFC.
RFC5305:
Defined Sub TLV concept. Added
Extended IS Reach(added TLV 22 replacing TLV 2) : 1 octet default metric is changed to  3 octet
Max link mertic is 2^24-1, if advertised, that link is not used for SPF.
It also has 7octet system ID

Max length of SUB TLV is 255
This TLV carries all TE related info of the link in sub-tlv form,like
BW from adv-node to NBR, available, reservable BW etc.

If there exist an L2 ADJ, L1 routes are leaked into L2 by default without any configuration.
Extended IP Reach(added TLV 135(235 for Ipv6) replacing 128):
Up/Down BIT is introduced : When set, indicates that route is leaked from L2 to L1.
So L1 should not leak back these routes into L2(possible cause of Loop in older way)

Router ID TLV(134): Unique stable address for TE purpose

TLV149 : BindingSID TLV: Used to advertise SID/Prefix binding Range , used in Mapping Server application.
Users of this TLV must only use, if they can reach a particular prefix by IP.

TLV 242: Capability TLV is amended to include SRGB range, and capability bit.
Note, multiple ranges are allowed, but its an ordered list, users should not interpreet in the same order, should not sort the SRGB ranges.

1. Hello packets are used to 'initialize' and 'maintain' ADJ between NBRing routers.
2. LSP's are used to exchance Link-State-Info.
3. Sequence number packets servce two purpose: 1. Consistency Check and/or 2. ACK( indirectly  Request for Info)
Summary of Packet Types(Total 9 different types) :
8:per level (LAN Hello, LSP, CSNP, PSNP) 
1:P2P Hello(for both L1 and L2).

CSNP in ISIS: Complete Sequence Number Packet : this packet allow consistency check of LSDB in all the routers.
PTP links its sent only once at the beginning.
LAN links : DIS broadcasted periodically


PSNP : On P2P link, its used to ACK receipt of an LSP(if not sent LSP is retransmitted), so its reliable flooding.
       On both LAN and P2P its used to request an missing LSP.

SRM(Send Routing Message) and SSN(Send Sequence Number) Flag plays importatn role in flooding of ISIS LSP's
Mostly kept per ISIS interface.
SSN:  to ack recept of LSP on P2P Link, and to reuqest a specific missing LSP during sync on Broadcast N/W.
SRM: Marks pending LSP;s to be flooded on an interface.

If both flags are zero, meaning no pending work on interface.

Note LSP's do have multicast(01 80..) MAC address, so are flooded out to NBR's, but not on the linke its received.

Note system should not inject /32 of router-id, or /32 of interface-prefix into RIB/FIB, as it will lead to forwarding loops.

Different ISIS Timers:
Table 5-7. IS-IS Database Timers

1200 sec Maxage
900 sec LSP refresh  interval
33msec LSP transmission interval 
5sec LSP retransmit interval 
10 sec  CSNP interval
IOS Command
isis max-lsp-interval isis lsp-refresh-interval isis lsp-interval
isis retransmit-interval isis csnp-interval

TRILL : Transparent Interconnection of Lots of Links
TRILL switches (RBridges) run a link state protocol amongst themselves. A link state protocol is one in which connectivity is broadcast to all the RBridges, so that each RBridge knows about all the other RBridges, and the connectivity between them. This gives RBridges enough information to compute pair-wise optimal paths for unicast, and calculate distribution trees for delivery of frames either to destinations whose location is unknown or to multicast or broadcast groups. The link state routing protocol used is IS-IS because:
it runs directly over Layer 2, so it can be run without configuration (no IP addresses need to be assigned)
it is easy to extend by defining new TLV (type-length-value) data elements and sub-elements for carrying TRILL information.



Admin-Tag RFC 5130 IS-IS :
Admin-Tag is a sub TLV(value 1) in TLV135, which may include one or more 32bit Numbers.
If only one admin-tag is processed, then top admin-tag must be picked.
There is another version with 64bit length(Type 2).

This tag is used in policy to perform policy-action when redistribute route from one  aread to another. At this time, policy action can overwrite this Tag with its own configured flag.
Use of Admin Tag:
1. Prioratizing route download to FIB based on admin-tag.
2.Identifying certain prefix with admin-tax, for LFA protection.
3. Controlling which routes are redistributed into other protocols based on admin-tag.
OSPFv2 also addded new draft to support admin-tag :
Previously this was not possible as they could not extend an LSA. Now they have defined new LSA's, which are TLV based, a new sub-TLV such as admin-tag can be added into new LSA for the same purpose. These are called : OSPFv2 Extended Prefix LSA. When ECMP routes are present, only one admin-tag should be picked with a fixed protocol, or if supports more than one, it should pick more than one.

IS-IS Minimum Remaining Lifetime: (Paul Wells Draft):
In the event, Remaining Lifetime is corrupted(such that its less than actual), the following correction is suggested:
If the Remaining Lifetime of the new LSP is less than MaxAge it   is set to MaxAge
and 
In such a case an IS SHOULD generate a CorruptRemainingLifetime event.

LSP's are advertised by originating routers with 'RemainingLifeTime' field set.
So that, recepient router can automatically expire these LSP's if not refreshed by originating router. 

In cisco, this field is set to 1200sec(20min) and refreshes at every 15min.
Note, expired LSP's are kept for additional 60second(ZeroAgeLifeTime) before gets deleted from DB.

When received LSP's checksum does not match, then routers will cause purge of this LSP's by flooding this LSP 
with "Remaining Lifetime set to zero" and "higher seq-number". 
This forces the originating router to send a new copy of this LSP's 
may be with correct checksum. 

In ospf only originating router can purge this LSP', so its different in OSPF.

A level1/2 routers sets Attached Bit in its level-1 LSP, 
indicating other level-1 routers where to forward unknown addresses.

LSP-ID : 6byte SystemID.PNodeID.LSP-ID
         e.g 00c0.0040.abcd.00-00 First Fragment of Regular LSP
             00c0.0040.abcd.00-01 Second Fragment of Regular LSP		  
             00c0.0040.abcd.01-00 Pseudonode LSP.


Checksum: Checksum is calculated starting from field LSP_ID(Which is after Remaining LifeTime in LSP) till the end of LSP. 

LSP Corruption Storm: LSP's continuously being corrupted during transmission, so continuous purge happen.  
Cisco has command to ignore corrupted LSP's just logs error , instead of purging.


RFC6822 : ISIS Multi Instance:
Instance Identifier TLV

   A new TLV is defined in order to convey the instance ID IID and ITIDs supported.
   The IID-TLV associates a PDU with an IS-IS instance using a unique
   16-bit number.  The IID-TLV is carried in all IS-IS PDUs that are
   associated with a non-zero instance; this includes IIHs, Sequence
   Number PDUs (SNPs), and Link State PDUs (LSPs).

   Multiple instances of IS-IS may coexist on the same circuit and on
   the same physical router.  IIDs MUST be unique within the same
   routing domain.

   IID #0 is reserved for the standard instance supported by legacy
   systems.  IS-IS PDUs associated with the standard instance MUST NOT
   include an IID-TLV except where noted in this document.

   The IID-TLV MAY include one or more ITIDs.  An ITID is a 16-bit
   identifier where all values (0 - 65535) are valid.
   
   Note that there will be seperate ADJ ,LSP and HELLO packet per instance.,so saperate LSPDB database and SPF also.

RFC 5120 : ISIS Multi Topology. 
(Multi instance creates different database, different adj, leading to inefficiency).   
In Multi-Topology, MTID can help keep single ADJ and database across multiple topologies, efficient, but still it needs seperate SPF per topology.

   MTID 1 is for IPv4,
   MTID 2 is for IPv6
   Note that there will not be seperate LSP/HELLO etc packet per MTID, (Very important to remember).

TLV 235 is equivalent to TLV135, but it has MTID as another field to identify prefix MTID
TLV236 is equivalent to TLV136 for IPv6 prefix, but it has MTID
You can create multiple IS-IS topologies without the MT extensions by enabling a saperate 
routing protocol instance on each router, if your protocol implementation supports multiple instances, 
for each desired topology. Using RFC6822 

Authentication is then used to create adjacencies within each instance that follow the desired topology. 
The problem with this approach is inefficiency. 

Each protocol instance on a router maintains its own database, its own adjacencies, and sends its own Hellos. 

The MT extensions use a single database and maintain single adjacencies across a given link, 
no matter how many topologies actually use the link. 
Only the SPF calculations and the RIBs are maintained separately for each topology. 
This means, bi-directional connectivity check is necessary during each SPF, 
which ensures that both neighbors understand IPv6.


Greedy Algorithm:
A greedy algorithm is an algorithmic paradigm that follows the problem solving heuristic 
of making the locally optimal choice at each stage with the hope of finding a global optimum.

Directed(One-Way Path) vs UnDirected(BiDirectional Path) Graphs:


Both are from a single source(root).
UnDirected Graph, MST(Minimum Spanning Tree)<----Prims Algorithm
  Directed Graph, SPT(Shortest Path Tree)/SPF(Shorted Path First) <------Dijkstra Algorithm


