ACI: Application Centric Infra by Cisco
    Ofdatapath: the switch implementation
    Ofprotocol: secure channel for connecting the switch to the controller
    Oflib: a library for converting to/from 1.3 wire format
    Dpctl: a tool for configuring the switch from the console



How EVPN is different from VPLS ?.
In EVPN PE's learn and advertise MAC addresses using MP-BGP in control plane using BGP updates with newly defined NLRI, like VPN IPV4 routes. no pseudo-wire full mesh required.(because broadcast/flood domains are not needed, this is done in control plane of MP-BGP), L2 Traffic is sent over a specific PE tunnel after learning is done.
 
This is not the case for VPLS. Where in VPLS establishes virtual broadcast domain, MAC addreses are not seen by BGP control plane in VPLS.

Why we do not need to run STP in VPLS Bridge ?.
Each PE has a P2MP view of all other PEs it sees it self as a root bridge, split horizon loop protection
Full mesh topology obviates STP requirements in the service provider network
Customer STP is transparent to the SP / customer BPDUs are forwarded transparently
Traffic received from the network will not be forwarded back to the network



VPLS Notes:(RFC4761)
VPLS needs an 
How VLAN traffic is segrigated ?.
Each VLAN has its own VPLS instance.
A VLAN has its own broadcast space,and MAC address space.

Note: Discovery of VE's is done using newly defined BGP NLRI.
Once this is done, all flooding/learning will only be sent to 
participating PE's from the source PE. Route Target is used to distinguish each VPLS-Instance

Role of BGP here is to only Discover participating VPLS' VE(or VID).
Having fully meshed PE MPLS bi-directional pseudo-wire is  basic requirement(LDP can be used for this also	)
for VPLS to work, And these tunnels are setup not using BGP.
These tunnels can also be GRE

When a PE capable of flooding (say PEx) receives a broadcast Ethernet
   frame, or one with an unknown destination MAC address, it must flood
   the frame.  If the frame arrived from an attached CE, PEx must send a
   copy of the frame to every other attached CE, as well as to all other
   PEs participating in the VPLS.  If, on the other hand, the frame
   arrived from another PE (say PEy), PEx must send a copy of the packet
   only to attached CEs.  PEx MUST NOT send the frame to other PEs,
   since PEy would have already done so.  This notion has been termed
   "split horizon" forwarding and is a consequence of the PEs being
   logically fully meshed for VPLS.

   Split horizon forwarding rules apply to broadcast and multicast
   packets, as well as packets to an unknown MAC address.

 MAC Address Learning

   As was mentioned earlier, the key distinguishing feature of VPLS is
   that it is a multipoint service.  This means that the entire Service
   Provider network should appear as a single logical learning bridge
   for each VPLS that the SP network supports.  The logical ports for
   the SP "bridge" are the customer ports as well as the pseudowires on
   a VE.  Just as a learning bridge learns MAC addresses on its ports,
   the SP bridge must learn MAC addresses at its VEs.


   Learning consists of associating source MAC addresses of packets with
   the (logical) ports on which they arrive; this association is the
   Forwarding Information Base (FIB).  The FIB is used for forwarding
   packets.  For example, suppose the bridge receives a packet with
   source MAC address S on (logical) port P.  If subsequently, the
   bridge receives a packet with destination MAC address S, it knows
   that it should send the packet out on port P.

   If a VE learns a source MAC address S on logical port P, then later
   sees S on a different port P', then the VE MUST update its FIB to
   reflect the new port P'.  A VE MAY implement a mechanism to damp
   flapping of source ports for a given MAC address.


VPLS PEs SHOULD have an aging mechanism to remove a MAC address
   associated with a logical port, much the same as learning bridges do.
   This is required so that a MAC address can be relearned if it "moves"
   from a logical port to another logical port, either because the
   station to which that MAC address belongs really has moved or because
   of a topology change in the LAN that causes this MAC address to
   arrive on a new port.  In addition, aging reduces the size of a VPLS
   MAC table to just the active MAC addresses, rather than all MAC
   addresses in that VPLS.

   The "age" of a source MAC address S on a logical port P is the time
   since it was last seen as a source MAC on port P.  If the age exceeds
   the aging time T, S MUST be flushed from the FIB.  This of course
   means that every time S is seen as a source MAC address on port P,
   S's age is reset.

   An implementation SHOULD provide a configurable knob to set the aging
   time T on a per-VPLS basis.  In addition, an implementation MAY
   accelerate aging of all MAC addresses in a VPLS if it detects certain
   situations, such as a Spanning Tree topology change in that VPLS.
